Add file associations guidance for the dbt VS Code extension (#9445)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/configure-dbt-extension.md

After installing the dbt extension and configuring your local setup, you may want to configure it to better fit your development workflow:

1. Open the VS Code settings by pressing `Ctrl+,` (Windows/Linux) or `Cmd+,` (Mac).
2. Search for `dbt`. On this page, you can adjust the extension's configuration options to fit your needs.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/extension/dbt-extension-settings.png" width="70%" title="dbt extension settings within the VS Code settings."/>

## File associations and other extensions

The dbt extension doesn't depend on your `.sql` [file associations](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/identifiers). It activates on your `dbt_project.yml`, so <Term id="lsp" /> features &mdash; like autocomplete, go-to-definition, and database-aware IntelliSense &mdash; work whether your files are set to `sql` or `jinja-sql`. The only difference between those two is syntax highlighting and the file icon.

> Where the association does matter is for *other* extensions. Any extension that claims the `sql` file type &mdash; whether that's Snowflake, SQL Server, or another database tool &mdash; can intercept your dbt files and override the IntelliSense you'd otherwise get from the dbt extension. For example, the Snowflake extension only picks up files associated with `snowflake-sql`. That makes `snowflake-sql` the wrong association for your dbt files &mdash; it hands them to the Snowflake extension instead of treating them as dbt files. If you have multiple SQL-aware extensions installed, it's worth checking which one is handling your `.sql` files to avoid unexpected behavior.

Author: how's this @jairus-m ?

## File associations and other extensions

The dbt extension doesn't depend on your `.sql` [file associations](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/identifiers). It activates on your `dbt_project.yml`, so <Term id="lsp" /> features &mdash; like autocomplete, go-to-definition, and database-aware IntelliSense &mdash; work whether your files are set to `sql` or `jinja-sql`. The only difference between those two is syntax highlighting and the file icon.

Where the association does matter is for *other* extensions. Some extensions only recognize a file when it's set to their language. For example, the Snowflake extension only picks up files associated with `snowflake-sql`. That makes `snowflake-sql` the wrong association for your dbt files &mdash; it hands them to the Snowflake extension instead of treating them as dbt files.

If you want to use both extensions, keep your ad hoc query files in a separate, gitignored directory and scope the Snowflake association to just that path:

```json
{
  "files.associations": {
    "**/snowflake_sandbox/*.sql": "snowflake-sql",
    "*.sql": "sql"
  }
}
```

:::tip Autocomplete not working?

> If column autocomplete isn't working, it's probably not your file associations. Make sure [strict static analysis](/docs/dbt-extension-features) is enabled &mdash; that's what powers column-level suggestions from your warehouse.

Author: ```suggestion
If column autocomplete isn't working, it's probably not your file associations. Make sure [strict static analysis](/docs/fusion/new-concepts?version=2.0&name=Fusion#configuring-static_analysis) is enabled &mdash; that's what powers column-level suggestions from your warehouse.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/extension/dbt-extension-settings.png" width="70%" title="dbt extension settings within the VS Code settings."/>

## Check your file associations

The dbt extension powers <Term id="lsp" /> features &mdash; like autocomplete, go-to-definition, and database-aware IntelliSense &mdash; for files associated with the `sql` language. If your `.sql` files are associated with a different language, the dbt extension won't be able to read them and these features silently stop working.

> If you're using another extension (like dbt Power User, which associates model and snapshot files with `jinja-sql`, or Snowflake, which uses `snowflake-sql`), it overrides the `sql` association the dbt extension expects. You get that extension's IntelliSense instead of dbt's &mdash; or none at all.

Author: confirming

Reviewer: I can confirm that "none at all" is the behavior if you are using `jinja-sql` with Fusion VSCE.

> If you're using another extension (like dbt Power User, which associates model and snapshot files with `jinja-sql`, or Snowflake, which uses `snowflake-sql`), it overrides the `sql` association the dbt extension expects. You get that extension's IntelliSense instead of dbt's &mdash; or none at all.

Author: ```suggestion
If you're using another extension (like Snowflake, which uses `snowflake-sql`), it overrides the `sql` association the dbt extension expects. You get that extension's IntelliSense instead of dbt's &mdash; or none at all.
```
